[Music]
hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the 12-inch
MacBook now when it first came out I
used it for about a week and I started
to do my review but then I realized that
that wasn't enough time to give this
thing a proper review just because it
was a new kind of device so I use it for
longer I use it for about a month and
here's my review one month with one hole
by 12-inch MacBook Review just a quick
unboxing here $1300 space gray base
model eight gigs of ram and 256 gigs of
storage underneath the notebook is a
pack of pamphlets AC adapter in a USB
see male-to-male cable inside the
pamphlet pack are some great Apple logo
stickers they're not white they're not
black they are great the size of the
machine is something you notice right
away it's really thin and light and
seriously makes the 13 inch MacBook Air
feel kind of clunky and heavy this thing
is so small it comfortably fits in the
slot of my backpack that was originally
designed for our tablets when using the
new macbook in the car I immediately
notice that I could type on it without
adjusting my seat back but making
everything small does kind of cramp some
things up the keyboard itself isn't
cramped but because it has a smaller
footprint you kinda have to put your
legs closer together to hold it in your
lap and I also found that I was always
hunched over a little bit more when I
was using this notebook compared to even
a 13-inch MacBook Air
even though Apple's marketing hyped-up
the new butterfly mechanism in the
keyboard I don't love it the keystrokes
feel spongy err and the travel feels
shorter than I'm used to and also prefer
my up arrow to be placed above the left
and right keys I'm not sure why they
decided to suddenly change this the
function keys and these skate keys are
also positioned a little bit different
from the way they were basically on
every other Mac keyboard here's a
13-inch MacBook Air keyboard notice the
arrow keys and the function keys I like
it this way here's a 15-inch MacBook Pro
keyword again notice the directional
keys and the function keys same thing
and this is Apple's wireless keyboard
directional keys function keys and it's
not just the layout these three
keyboards feel almost identical when
you're typing on them in fact every
single keyboard made by Apple since the
2008 unibody z' has been almost
identical in layout and mechanics until
this 12-inch Mac now I understand they
had to change the mechanism to make it
thinner and lighter but they changed the
layout as well and the truth is I got
used to it and the individually backlit
keys are cool but even after a month of
using this thing I definitely prefer the
older style more tactile keyboards the
trackpad is a different story
I really like the force touch trackpad
the more I use it the more I like it and
it doesn't really change the user
experience much but the tech is cool and
I like how it picks up clicks when I'm
just clicking anywhere on the trackpad
and yep just like the 13-inch MacBook
Pro you can click super fast I actually
think that this trackpad is the most
distinguishing feature of this notebook
so the closest competitor to this
macbook is probably the quad HD version
of the asus ux305 which starts at around
a thousand bucks it has very similar
specs to the macbook but if you've
watched my review of the base model
ux305 that thing has a pretty average
trackpad and to me the four-star
trackpad really separates the MacBook
from competitors it's just a trackpad
but an excellent trackpad makes a big
difference for user experience now
whether or not this trackpad is worth
the $300 price difference
that's up for debate I'm pretty sure you
know by now this thing has the legendary
single port having only one port makes
the exterior design of this notebook
super clean on one side you have two
little mics and a headphone jack and
that's it there's nothing else on this
notebook other than that solitary use B
3.1 port charging and every kind of
wired data connection has to be done
through that port the 29 watt charger is
pretty small and it takes about two and
a half hours to charge it from empty to
full and on a random note the
male-to-male USB C charging cable that
comes with it smells awful I mean it's
the first Apple product I've ever owned
that smelled like really cheap rubber
and it's gross I also tried using a
standard battery pack to charge the
place and if you keep the lid closed it
will charge the macbook ever so slowly
it took almost five hours but it's kind
of cool to be able to use a portable
battery pack to juice up a notebook
using the port for work or school is a
little annoying if you use SD cards
frequently like if you're a photographer
or if you have SD card audio recordings
from lectures I really wouldn't
recommend getting this MacBook the
hassle you need to go through with
adapters and dongles will really annoy
you over time
the same thing goes for USB drives even
though you'll get good at connecting and
disconnecting these things it's annoying
and if you forget your dongle at home or
even worse if you lose an $80.00 dongle
like I did you're boned and you can't
connect your devices up at all but in
the end of the day if you force yourself
to only use this one port for work or
school you'll get used to it and you'll
get by
so I force myself to use this notebook
exclusively at work for the month it's
comfortable in the lot because it's so
light but like I mentioned earlier you
can't sit with your legs super wide
apart when using it on your lab I don't
love the keyboard but it's good enough
that I can comfortably type on it all
day long and battery life is about eight
hours for regular web use if you need a
mouse for work or playing games at work
ports are pretty rare here so you want
to get a Bluetooth one the 480p webcam
up top is terrible but I never used it
other than to just laugh at how bad it
was the screen is wonderful
super high-res for a 12-inch at 2304 by
1440 colors pop viewing angles are great
and if you care a spider pegs it at 75%
of Adobe RGB color space but all in all
it's a really great screen drive speeds
are pretty fast around 450 right and a
little bit over 750 for Reed
so having drive speeds like this I
thought maybe that five watt core and
processor could struggle through 4k
video edits but it can't playback is
choppy and adding lots makes it
basically unusable rendering a 10-minute
4k video took two hours I mean I
shouldn't have even tried but I just
really wanted to know how slow it really
would be now 1080p video editing is a
different story it's still a little
sluggish but it's usable scrubbing
around and playback isn't bad but a
10-minute clip with no Luntz took 52
minutes to render and just for reference
a 15 inch base model retina MacBook Pro
takes about 25 minutes it's not ideal
but it is very usable if you need to
edit 1080p videos I also took some
thermals while I was doing the renders
the 12-inch MacBook is on the right
13-inch MacBook Air on the left and
remember this 12-inch MacBook is fanless
so it's dead silent and it runs about 5
to 6 degrees cooler than the MacBook Air
I stumbled upon a movie called free to
play which is a documentary about pro
dota players who are competing for that
million dollar prize last year I started
watching it just a test battery life but
I totally got sucked in but in any case
I got about seven and a half hours of
battery life watching videos off the
drive and this is with screen at max
brightness and volume at about a quarter
and similar to the asus ux305 games
don't run that well on Core M processors
I got about 35 to 40 frames per second
in csgo with everything turned down and
in dota 2 in Heroes and everything on
low you get around 30 frames per second
when you're laning and it drops down to
about 20 frames per second in teamfights
it's kind of playable but your team is
gonna hate you so I just wouldn't
recommend it battery life while playing
games is about three and a half hours
and this is the screen at max brightness
volume at a quarter again the last thing
I want to talk about are the speakers
these speakers are one of the best
notebook speakers I've ever heard better
than 15 inch retina and from what I
remember even better than the 17-inch
MacBook from 2011 so here's what they
sound like
[Applause]
[Music]
so after that first week of using this
device I was still really in love with
the idea of it I mean it's got a great
screen great speakers really cool form
factor and it comes in space great right
lots of things to love about it and it's
easy to fall in love with that new Apple
product but after using for a month the
little quirks kind of rise to the
surface so individually they're not that
big of a deal so like the forty P webcam
and you can live with it
the single port like I showed it's
something you get used to you adapt to
it and it's you can you can live with
that
the combo braking keyboard I mean I
don't love that they shift it away from
their old stuff but it's something you
kind of get used to and you live with it
and the price tag thirteen hundred bucks
it's not the best deal in the world but
this is the price you have to pay for
top-tier Apple products so individually
all these things are you can stomach
them but when you combine them together
you kind of think I should be in love
with the product that I paid $1,300 for
you should love it you shouldn't feel
like you had to make sacrifices to enjoy
and I don't love it so I think the next
iteration of this device like the one
that comes out next year it'll be faster
it'll probably be cheaper there might
even be another port or two and they're
gonna be more USB C devices around at
that time so that's probably where the
money is so if you're on the fence I'd
wait for that one that's the end of the
review hope you guys liked it if you did
give me some of these if you didn't give
me some of these and if you loved it
give me some subs it's nice I'll see you
guys next time
and here it is my one month with one
whole 12 inch macbook review oh my god